# Server maintenance instructions

### Remove Results

The measurements created for each job can be found in the results directory. They need to be examined even after successful runs, so they are not automatically deleted. (The actual path depends on your configuration and whether you are using Docker or not)

```bash
# Delete a specific result
sudo rm -r /var/lib/ecodigit/results/job-1

# Delete multiple/all results at once (Be careful!)
sudo rm -r /var/lib/ecodigit/results/job-*
```

## Manual Cleanup

The python script should clean up after itself, if everything is working as expected. If an Error occurs, the script stops and doesn't run it's cleanup phase. That is useful for debugging, but clutters the development server.

### Delete machine images

This is most important, because every image uses several Gigabytes of data on our server-storage, which is limited.

```bash
# list images (root is required)
sudo ls /var/lib/libvirt/images
# delete an image
sudo rm /var/lib/libvirt/images/eames-1-1.qcow2
# see how much space is free on the server
df -h /
```

You can delete multiple images at once, but be VERY careful with wildcards. To use these, you must be root, because the wildcard operator does not work for users that can't see the directory.

Currently, only images with the naming scheme `eames-(nr.)-(nr.).qcow2` are autogenerated and can be deleted most of the time. Please ask around before deleting any other image, especially images that include `gm` (golden master) in their name.

```bash
# become root
sudo -s
# remove every image starting with 'eames-1', e.g. eames-1-0.qcow2, eames-104-1.qcow2, ...
rm /var/lib/libvirt/images/eames-1*
```

The following steps are only important to make job-ids usable again, as they don't take up significant storage.

### Remove machine configurations

In addition to deleting the image file, you also need to tell virsh that the machine should be deleted. As stated above, please be careful not to delete any machines that are not autogenerated (`eames-(nr.)-(nr.)`), especially machines that include `gm` in their name.

```bash
# list defined virtual machines
sudo virsh list --all
# remove a specific machine (does not delete it's image, it only makes virsh 'forget' about that machine)
sudo virsh undefine eames-1-1
```

### Reset SSH-Known-Hosts

When the python script encounters a new machine with a different ssh key under the same IP address, it fails to connect. We don't need to remember any known hosts on this server, so the easiest solution, though not elegant, is to just delete all known hosts.

```bash
sudo rm -f /root/.ssh/known_hosts && sudo rm -f ~/.ssh/known_hosts
```

### Remove Shares

These folders are used to transport the SUT to the virtual machine.

```bash
# Remove single share
sudo rm -r /var/lib/ecodigit/shares/job-1

# Remove all shares (Don't delete folder 'remote')
sudo rm -r /var/lib/ecodigit/shares/job-*
```

### Remove Vnets

Cleanup all vnets that are not used: They have to be shutdown and undefined separately. Each vnet uses a specific bridge, that bridge can be connected to several virtual machines. Naming should be as follows:

- vnet: default - bridge: virbr0 (Used by GM-Machines) (Please don't delete this one!)
- vnet: vnet1 - bridge: virbr1
- vnet: vnet2 - bridge: virbr2
- ...

Each job can use any vnet, they are not directly related. (The python script just chooses the first free one in the vnet_jobs configuration file).

(Examples for 'vnet1')

```bash
# list all networks
sudo virsh net-list --all

# If there are virtual machines active that you don't want to delete,
# finding out which machine is connected to which network is a bit annoying.
# You need to first find out the bridge for the network
sudo virsh net-info vnet1 | grep Bridge
# Then you can check for every machine which bridge it is using
sudo virsh dumpxml eames-gm | grep 'source bridge='

# shut down network (please don't shutdown network 'default!')
sudo virsh net-destroy vnet1

# remove network (please don't delete network 'default!'
sudo virsh net-undefine vnet1


# oneliner to remove multiple at once
for i in {1..200}; do sudo virsh net-undefine vnet$i; done
```

To tell the python script which networks (n) are usable, remove the job-id from the n-th space between commas in `/var/lib/ecodigit/configuration/vnets_jobs`. If you cleaned up every vnet, you can replace the whole file with a clean one. The first field has to be filled though, because the first vnet is reserved by our default vent. (Used for GMs and custom new machines.)

```bash
# edit vnet_jobs
sudo nano /var/lib/ecodigit/configuration/vnets_jobs

# completely reset vnet_jobs
sudo cp /var/lib/ecodigit/configuration/vnets_jobs_empty_template /var/lib/ecodigit/configuration/vnets_jobs
```
