# Eco:Digit Miles
This project is the test platform for mobile devices for the Eco:Digit project.

## Project structure
The overall project consists of several subprojects located in different folders:
- **Frontend** (`./frontend`): The frontend is a Vue.js project that can be used to create new test jobs. After starting, it can be accessed in the browser at `http://localhost:8080`.
- **Manager** (`./backend/management`): The management server, which accepts requests from the frontend, generates statistics (for running jobs), and creates new jobs for the workers.
- **UI-Test-Worker** (`./backend/worker/ui-test-worker`): Worker that can take UI tests from the queue and execute them on a connected phone/emulator.
- **Perfetto-Analyzer** (`./backend/worker/perfetto-analyzer`): Worker that can analyze the Perfetto traces generated by the ui-test-worker.
- **Rabbit-Relay-Worker** (`./backend/worker/rabbit-relay`): Worker that can forward status messages from the other two workers to a RabbitMQ.

## Requirements for running the application on a Linux server with a headless emulator

### Requirements
- The application runs on a Debian server that supports nested virtualization and has Docker installed without a root requirement.
- The [Docker image](backend/worker/ui-test-worker/emulator-in-docker/Dockerfile) must be built, have the name `${COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME}_emulator:latest`, and exist locally.

### Installation and verification of the requirements
#### Install Debian
1. Install Debian (important: do not use a graphical user interface).
2. Install sudo:
```shell
su -
apt-get install sudo
adduser deb sudo
reboot
```

> [!note] Info
> There are `sudo reboot` and `sudo shutdown -h now`)

#### Install Docker
1. Install curl: `sudo apt-get install curl`
2. Install Docker using the helper script:
```shell
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh
sudo sh ./get-docker.sh
```
3. Make Docker usable without root: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/

#### Check whether HW acceleration is working

```shell 
sudo apt-get install cpu-checker
sudo kvm-ok
```
The result should return "KVM acceleration can be used".

> [!note] Info
> 1. `git clone https://git.uni-due.de/eco.digit/apps/testplatform.git` --> username: anything non-empty; password: the project access token
> 2. Pull: `git pull`
> 3. (Note that the `.env` file of the frontend specifies where the backend server is reachable --> this may need to be changed to the IP of the new server!)

## Running the application
The application has several dependencies that must be started beforehand:
- [adb server](https://developer.android.com/tools/adb) on port 5037 (only if the app is started in the HEAD_FULL profile)
- There is at least one phone/emulator that the adb server can find/use, or the requirements for using the headless emulator are met and the corresponding environment variable is set (see below).
- The Docker socket must be reachable and usable.
- There is a folder used for data exchange with the other services (`./job_data`).
- There is a `.env` file in which the following environment variables are set:

| Name                            |                                                                                                           Meaning |
|:--------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME            |                Name of the current project (used, among other things, to ensure network names are set correctly!) |
| COMPOSE_PROFILES                | Compose profiles. Can be used to start only specific services selectively. See the following section for details. |
| ABSOLUT_PATH_TO_JOB_DATA_FOLDER |           Specifies the absolute (!) path to the job data folder. This is used to exchange data between services. |

> [!note] Compose profiles
> The following compose profiles exist (multiple can be specified, separated by commas):
> - IS_HEADFULL : Headless emulator is not available, but local Appium and the frontend are.
> - IS_HEADLESS : Headless emulator is available; local Appium and the frontend are not.
> - RELAY_STATUS_MESSAGES : There is a service that forwards status messages to a RabbitMQ.
> - NEEDS_RABBITMQ : Additionally starts a RabbitMQ (potentially helpful if RELAY_STATUS_MESSAGES is enabled, but you do not have an existing RabbitMQ).

### Starting with Docker-Compose
To start the application, a Redis instance and an Appium instance are also required.  
To start these, the Docker-Compose file can be used (`docker-compose up -d`).

Afterwards, the interface should be accessible at `http://localhost:8080`.

### Applying changes
Because the individual subprojects are now in Docker containers, they no longer automatically notice when something in the source code changes.  
For this reason, you need to rebuild and restart the corresponding service.  
The easiest way is to stop and remove the respective service in the Docker Desktop interface and then run Docker-Compose again including the "rebuild parameter":
```shell
docker-compose up -d --build
```